So what is Kubernetes?
Well, that's actually a very large question to answer,
and that's why there's multiple courses on Pluralsight about Kubernetes.
The goal of this section is to gently introduce you to the basics of
Kubernetes and some of the key features that it offers.
And then through the rest of this module,
I'll walk through how we can move from Docker Compose into Kubernetes.
So if you go to kubernetes.io, you'll see this on the website.
"Kubernetes is an open‑source system for automating deployment,
scaling, and management of containerized applications." Now the way I
like to think of it is from the perspective of teams.
If you're into sports,
then you could think of each player on the team as a container,
and Kubernetes would then be the coach of the container team.
Or if you're not really into that, and let's say you like orchestras,
well, Kubernetes would be the conductor of a container orchestra as you see here.
You may look at that and go, well,
isn't that really what Docker Compose does? And yes,
but you're going to see Kubernetes offers a lot more than just being the
conductor. So here's a quick overview of Kubernetes.
First off, it's designed for container and cluster management.
Now we'll talk more about clusters in just a moment.
It's also supported by all the major cloud platforms out there,
and that's a big deal if you want something that's very
standardized and also very popular to work with.
It provides a declarative way to define a cluster state using YAML files,
manifest files they call them.
So it's very similar to Docker Compose in that regard.
And then, finally,
it provides a command line tool that you can use to interact
with the Kubernetes API called kube c‑t‑l,
kube cuddle, however you'd like to say it.
I've always learned it as kube cuddle,
but if you prefer kube c‑t‑l that works as well,
and we'll be talking about this command as we move forward.
Now,
some of the key features then of Kubernetes that really set it apart from
something like Docker Compose would be the following.
First off, it has load balancing and discovery of different services.
And we'll be talking about what a service is a little bit later.
It can orchestrate your storage,
handle automatic rollouts and rollbacks, and manage different workloads.
Really, in a nutshell, what it does is you give it a final
destination that you'd like to get to,
and it's kind of like the mapping software that shows you how to
actually reach that destination you'll see.
Now it has a few other things,
like self‑healing of containers. It can manage secrets and
other configuration data. Horizontal scaling.
And this is not just of containers, but you can also have multiple nodes,
they call them, which is your virtual machines. And then we could go even deeper.
It has a lot of other features with networking and more.
So from a high level or big picture view, this is what Kubernetes looks like.
It's going to have a master node,
and the master is in charge of keeping all the children in line,
if you will, and we call these the worker nodes.
Now, the worker nodes would have something called Pods inside of them.
Now a node is like a VM, and a Pod is a container for containers.
So think of one of those shipping containers you might see on a boat,
or maybe you've even had one delivered to your house,
and you use it to move.
Well, you can think of that as a Pod,
and then you can put multiple things inside of that Pod,
and multiple Pods could even run on a different node.
Now, with multiple nodes being managed by a master, we call that a cluster.
So we can have a cluster of virtual machines. We can scale out. We can
scale in. We can scale the individual containers out,
the nodes out, and even control that based on different scenarios,
such as, maybe the CPU load is too high; therefore,
we want to automate a new node being created or maybe just
different containers being started or stopped.
So now that you've learned about the fundamentals of Kubernetes,
learned a little bit about the master, the worker nodes,
Pods, and how containers can run in Pods, let's take a look at how we can get Kubernetes running locally on your machine.